All images that were taken in **morado_5may: A Dataset for Detection of Ripe Flowers of the Alstroemeria Genus Morado** show the top view of a flowerbed, and the camera was roughly 1.5 meters above the flowerbed. The images were taken with an iPhone 8, using the 12 MP camera creating images with a size of 4032x3024 pixels. The photos were taken on the 5th of May 2021 around twelve o'clock in the afternoon inside the greenhouse of Hoogenboom Alstroemeria company.

A cart that is normally used for harvesting flowers is equipped with a tripod to which the camera can be attached (camera at the location of the yellow circle). In this way, the camera is in the middle above the flowerbed. The cart is pushed along the flower bed and after about 1 meter of driving a picture is taken. The greenhouse has a total of 10 flowerbeds with Morado and all of them are recorded for the dataset. From each flowerbed, 41–43 pictures were taken. Some images may slightly overlap with each other at the borders. In total, the dataset consists of 414 images.

The dataset is unbalanced because the majority of the images contain much more raw flowers (not ripe) than ripe ones. Most of the images contain 1-3 ripe flowers, while there are always a dozen of raw flowers in an image.

Annotations in the dataset were applied to both fully and partially visible flowers, using two classes, namely (1) raw and (2) ripe, in addition to the background class. An Alstroemeria flower consists of several flower buds, and a cluster of these buds is considered as a flower. For each flower bud, a rectangle was drawn to precisely match the area of the flower. Each image contains around 10-20 flower buds, but typically only 1-3 of them are labeled as ripe. The ripeness classification of each flower is based on factors such as color, color uniformity, size, and the number of buds. A flower is considered ripe if it contains several buds starting to open, relatively large buds, and a bright purple color. These guidelines were established to help others identify misclassified flowers.

The full bud is bright purple so no yellow part halfway. A flower contains multiple buds that are starting to get open. The buds of the flower are large with respect to the buds of the other flowers.

The dataset exhibits several properties, including variation in illumination (due to changes in sunlight and shadows in the greenhouse), variation in size of ripe flowers, variation in the number of buds per ripe flower, some flowers being partially visible due to others, and a higher number of raw flowers compared to ripe ones. Furthermore, the ripeness classification of a flower is determined by multiple criteria, including color, color uniformity, size, and openness.
